## Introduction
- This guide is dedicated to support IMAGE in multiple languages.
- Pre-requisite: Knowledge on HuggingFace transformer API & PyTorch, HTTP request/response using JavaScript via `fetch`-`then` API and Flask (Python), TypeScript syntax. Knowledge on Regexp is optional but much appreciated. 
- Server-side components: [Translation Service](#1-translation-service-multilang-support), [Handlers](#2-handlers), [French TTS](#4-text-to-speech-tts-service)
- Client-side components: [UI localisation](#31-ui-localisation), [Automatic mode](#33-automatic-mode)

## 1. Translation Service: `multilang-support`
- TL;DR: The translation service uses large language models from the Helsinki-NLP collection, all based on the Marian training framework. We then use HuggingFace `transformers` API with PyTorch to activate the model for translation. 
- The detailed documentation about service can be read here: [README.md](https://github.com/Shared-Reality-Lab/IMAGE-server/blob/main/services/multilang-support/README.md).
- The service takes a **request** with the following body:
  - `segments`: (required) list/array of strings to be translated
  - `src_lang`: (optional) the source language. By default it's English `'en'`
  - `tgt_lang`: (required) the target language 
- The service sends a **response** with the following body:
  - `translations`: a list/array of strings translated to the target langugage
  - `src_lang`, 'tgt_lang`: source and target languages, respectively. This is mostly for debugging purposes.

## 2. Handlers 
- Most language handling is located within the condition:
```js
if (targetLanguage !== 'en') {
  // language handling in here
}
```
- "Language handling" may refer to the following actions:
  - Translate a word, part of a sentence, or a full sentence generated by handlers. Individual string is often referred to as "segment".
  - Translate the `description` (also known as the _title_) of an interpretation.
- Common workflow:
  1. Use `fetch` API to get the translation from `multilang-support`.
  2. Then, send the translation to `espnet-tts-xx` where `xx` is the target language.
> Depending on the situation where multilang-support might not support the target language, or there is no TTS service available for such language, we simply skip the step and log the error.
- As August of 2023, multilang support is in three handlers: `photo-audio-handler`, `autour-handler`, and `high-charts` handler.

### 2.1. `photo-audio-handler` and `high-charts`
- Both handlers have an `utils.ts` file for our intermediate function to fetch the translation. Their implementations are basically the same:
```ts
/**
 * Get translation from multilang-support service
 * @param inputSegment: array of segments to be translated
 * @param targetLang: target language, in ISO 639-1 format
 * @returns array of translated segments, correspond to inputSegment
*/
export async function getTranslationSegments(inputSegment: string[], targetLang: string) {
    return fetch("http://multilang-support/service/translate", {
        method: "POST",
        headers: {
            "Content-Type": "application/json",
        },
        body: JSON.stringify({
            segments: inputSegment,
            src_lang: 'en',
            tgt_lang: targetLang
        }),
    }).then((resp) => resp.json())
    .then(json => json['translations']);
}
```
- The translation is done by taking `ttsData` `"value"` field, send it to `multilang-support` along with **targetLanguage** (taken from `language` field of the request). The results is then remapped to `ttsData[i]["value"]` using a *for* loop. This also applies for pie-charts of `high-charts`, and map interpretation of `autour-handler`. 
```ts
const translatedValues = await utils.getTranslationSegments(
    ttsData.map((x) => x["value"]),
    targetLanguage
);
for (let i = 0; i < ttsData.length; i++) {
    ttsData[i]["value"] = translatedValues[i];
}
```
- For TTS, the function `getTTS(..)` in `utils.ts` takes a list/array of strings with the `targetLanguage` to get a `ttsResponse` object via `fetch` API. This function hides the language handling in `server.ts`. A small addition to `getTTS` function to redirect handler to TTS service based on the target language.
```ts
// inside getTTS(...) function
if (targetLanguage === "en") {
    ttsUrl = "http://espnet-tts/service/tts/segments";
} else if (targetLanguage === "fr") {
    ttsUrl = "http://espnet-tts-fr/service/tts/segments";
}
else {
   // unable to generate speech due to unavailable TTS service
}
```
- 

- Depending on the type of HighCharts, we process them differently.
  - **Line chart**: the interpretation is a single sentence; therefore, we send the graphInfo directly to multilang using _\[what I like to call\]_ one-line translation for both the interpretation and the description (translation title):
```ts
graphInfo = (await utils.getTranslationSegments([graphInfo], targetLanguage))[0];
description = (await utils.getTranslationSegments([description], targetLanguage))[0];
```
  - **Pie chart**: Similar language handling steps as `photo-audio-handler` and `autour-handler`, mentioned above
 

### 2.2. `autour-handler`
- Without having `utils.ts` like photo-audio-handler, all language handlings are located within the handler.
- Based on the target language, we redirect the TTS stage to the correct HTTP address of the service.
- For the translation, we send `segments` (a list of strings describing locations on the map) with `targetLanguage` to `multilang-support`. Notice that here we combine the `description` with the `segments` into one array to effectively save processing time.
```ts
translateSegments.push(description);
translateSegments.push(...segments);
/* *sending `translateSegments` to translate* */

// Mapping description & segments
description = translated[0];
// Replace `segments` with translated segments
for(let i = 1; i < translated.length; i++) {
    segments[i - 1] = translated[i];
}
```
## 3. Browser Extension
### 3.1. UI localisation
- All client-visible elements such as texts, labels, or buttons, must be enclosed inside an HTML element with the class `_localisation_` (**Canadian spelling!**). The element's ID should be the message title/name on the locale JSON. 
```html
<!-- E.g.: Directly on the HTML -->
<span class="localisation" id="FullRendering"></span>
<option class="localisation" id="automaticLanguage" value="auto"></option>
```

```js
// E.g.: JavaScript/TypeScript createElement
const aButton = document.createElement("button");
/* adding attributes, eventlistener, etc. */
aButton.classList.add("localisation");
```

- To automatically retrieve locale message from `\_locale/fr/messages.json`, import `queryLocalisation` from `utils.ts` and add it to the end (or near end) of the script. It will find all elements with class `localisation` in the DOM and match the message's name with the element's ID, and add the message's content to the webpage.

- Messages are added to `messages.json` file inside the language folder. For example, English messages are located in `\_locales/en/messages.json`. Although it's not explicitly enforced, I suggest applying CamelCase syntax for the element's name. Description field is optional.
```json
{
    "extensionName": {
        "message": "IMAGE Extension",
        "description": "Extension name"
    },
}
```

- **NOTE**: 
  - To get browser's UI language directly, see: [i18n.getUILanguage()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/API/i18n/getUILanguage)
```ts
let UILang = browser.i18n.getUILanguage();
let UILangCode = UILang.slice(0, 2);
```
  - In the case of `high-charts` where the JavaScript is injected to the DOM instead of running in the background via `browser` API, it's temporary using `navigator.language` to detect display language for buttons. Also, since we can't use `getMessage()` function of the API, it's the only component that's hardcoded like below:
```js
if (navigator.language === 'fr')
   chartButtonText = "Interpréter ce graphique avec IMAGE";
else
   chartButtonText = "Interpret this chart with IMAGE";
```
### 3.2. 'Automatic' mode
- This functionality works differently depending on user's operating system (OS) and browser. Note that there are **UI language** and **renderings (IMAGE results) language**. 
  - Windows:
    - UI and Rendering language is based on the browser settings.
    - Tested on: Vivaldi, Microsoft Edge, Opera
  - Linux:
    - Debian-based (Ubuntu, ChromeOS, etc.)
    - Arch-based:
      - Vivaldi: UI Language is based on browser settings; Rendering language is based on system's `LANGUAGE` variable
      - Chromium, Google Chrome (AUR): both UI and renderings language is based on system's `LANGUAGE` variable
  - MacOS/iOS: _Work in progress, support coming soon!_

## 4. Text-To-Speech (TTS) Service
- As of August 2023, the IMAGE project has English and French TTS engines available. 

## 5. Known Issues
- TTS couldn't pronounce numbers
  - See [French TTS `espnet-tts-fr` struggles with numerical numbers](/Shared-Reality-Lab/IMAGE-server/issues/723). 
  - Patched by PR [Helping French TTS to pronounce numbers](/Shared-Reality-Lab/IMAGE-server/pull/739) using Regex filtering
- Language Model produces repetitive segments 
  - See [Segment repetition in French renderings](/Shared-Reality-Lab/IMAGE-server/issues/755).
  - Note from @notkaramel: I've seen this bug before in some other languages back in the evaluation days, but very minor and edge case. A probable solution could be fine-tune the model, or change the exisitng model's parameters.
- HighCharts button on the browser extension is hardcoded to display depending on `navigator.language` result. This is an exception since the script doesn't have access to the `browser` API to query localisation messages.